>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, that we have
these alive and well in our application,
what do you suppose the next step is?
>> Speaker 2: Abstract the templates.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
abstract the templates, very good.
So, we know that we're here,
everything is kinda hooked up properly.
So, let's put the templates in.
So, we'll go back here, and, yes,
I see somebody saying
Angular CLI scaffolding.
I would just be a hypocrite if I just
scolded everybody muscle memory,
and then I scaffold it.
All right, so I'm just gonna copy this.
And we'll go to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget Detail
component.
And I'm going to paste this here.
Let's go back to a widget component.
And I fully expect that when we run this,
this is going to break.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
we'll chop this and.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget,
list, component, yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, kinda works?
But see, I'm not throwing any air,
so that's a good sign.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, now,
what we need to do is first things first,
we need to get widgets
into our widgets list.
So, what would we use for that?
>> Speaker 3: Input.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Input, yes, very good.
And so, now,
let's start with the list component here,
and let's just call it widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Say this
is an array of widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Come on.
There we go.
And so, now, I'm saying,
I have an input of widgets that I'm
going to get from my parent component.
Now, if we go here to.
Let's close this down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: [widgets] ="widgets".
Now, we just verified that if
I go to the widgets component.
Yes, we do indeed have the widgets
properly on the parent.
I'm essentially taking this property,
and more so its value, and
were passing it into
the widgets list component.
So far so good?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Super, there it is.
Now, I feel like.
Let me see here.
Okay, I'm messing up on the CSS somewhere,
but
I'm not going to worry
about that just yet.
So, now, what we need to do is,
more importantly,
we need to capture the click
event when we select
a widget's item from the list,
and service it back up to
our widget's component.
So, let's go into here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
let's call this output selected, now,
this is a new event emitter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're going
to define this as output.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did this not import,
come on.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Ha!
>> Speaker 4: Make sure you pick
the right one, there's six of them.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, exactly
let's see here, which one do I have?
>> Speaker 5: Put Output EventEmitter
you're missing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's just
take one from the core, okay?
And then we'll go back to our
component here, and select it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Select widget.
Rather, that's what I want.
So, now, we need to trigger
this from our list component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: selected.emit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And let's see here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's hop back in.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Click,
selected, a MIT widget.
Let's go back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: selected,
selectWidget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just
make sure this is firing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, good, so
this is actually what I want, but
I haven't hooked up the input.
For my widget details component.
Duh.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I totally
thought about something.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, and
so now, in our widget deep div
component, we have selected widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me
just rename this real quick,
just gonna call this widget,
widget, widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go,
and in our detail
component, let's go input.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
now, we have the input, and
what do we need to do here
to get our selected widget?
Into our widget detail component.
Yep.
So, it is property binding.
="selectedWidget".
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now you can see
here, we're just using inputs, outputs.
And we're saying, now take the selected
widget and put it in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
refresh the page.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And here we go.
So styling aside, this is pretty
much what we want to happen.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What
else did I say in here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
delete, save, and cancel.
So let's wire those up real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
if we go to our items,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or item list, rather.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There it is.
You just copy this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And we'll go to our,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget
list component or rather HTML.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so here, we've
already kind of predefined this deleted,
so let's go into the component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Deleted
= new EventEmitter.
And then what we'll do is in
the widget component itself,
well actually first we
need to hook this up.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Delete it,
we'll go deleteWidget event,
and then we will hook
this up in the component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we have
selectWidget, just make sure I don't.
Okay, so from here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Delete the widget.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And let me make sure.
I think this is everything, let's see.
>> Speaker 6: I think you copied and
pasted an item in there.
Should it be widget for your delete?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did I,
yeah, I think you are correct.
Did I do this in?
>> Speaker 6: Your list component HTML,
on the left.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: On the left.
>> Speaker 6: I'm looking at
your tabs up on the left there.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right here.
>> Speaker 6: Yeah, there deleted.emit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You are my true homey.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mark give this guy
a cookie when we go on break after this.
>> Speaker 7: There's a whole stack
of cookies next right next to him.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go so now
we are surfacing this item for deletion.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And two more and
then we actually will take a break cuz
this is exhausted, all this live coding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
go back into our code and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Item detail HTML.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just copy this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
get this out of here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget I'm gonna leave
this here, we'll get into this next.
Widget and
actually I know what is happening here and
we'll talk about this in the next episode.
Okay two outputs.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widget
detail component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Boom.
Okay, was it saved?
EventEmitter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And cancel.
Did I do that right?
Let me check.
Cancelled saved.
Saved cancelled.
And so from here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We are in
the home stretch.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Does this look ok?
I think, it feels right in my soul.
I feel like I've made good
choices with my life.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So that's working.
Yay.
All right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And there we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So any questions
about what I've done in this example.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think the most
important thing that I wanna call out is,
when we look at our widgets component,
does this right here and
right here, does this make sense?
>> Speaker 8: So just to clarify for
my own sake, essentially the input and
the output,
there on the left where in brackets or
parens is kind of what it's
referenced as in the child.
Right?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 8: Whereas in the quotes
is what it's used in the parent,
that's kind of how
the parent is handling it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what happens
is the child is responsible for
defining its interface.
So let's see if I can do, let me just
see if I can pick one of these here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go with.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
we'll do this one.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we can see here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
in the widget detail component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on, somebody
just made something totally funny.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Somebody said
Less CSS would be easier and
somebody's like Less,
like capital L-E-S-S or Less.
That's-
>> Speaker 4: They're being sassy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's aw.
You just totally, say it, put it in there.
>> All: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 4: They all heard it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
All right, so, back on track here.
I'm gonna be laughing
about that all afternoon.
In our WidgetDetail component, i.e.,
the child component,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We have defined
essentially, our interface,
our inputs and outputs.
And over here, in the parent component,
we are now leveraging
our inputs and outputs,
to interact with the child component.
Does that make sense?
And so again, I want everybody to think
of inputs and outputs are really just
custom properties and events that we're
defining for our child component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
that is really at the core,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What we're doing here?
We're simply saying,
I'm creating a custom component and
I want to set these properties on it.
And I want it, when something
happens to them at these events, so
I can handle them outside
of the component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes?
>> Speaker 5: I had a question on
the event.stop propagation on the button,
on the click event.
What exactly does that do?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what happens
is because you have a child button or
really that delete button,
that sits on top of another element that
we're also listening for a click event,
is that event was triggering both of them.
So what I'm saying is when
I click the delete button,
I want to stop the click event entirely.
Instead of letting it basically
bubble through my DOM.
So essentially it's like hey,
stop the event,
essentially it's a delete button and
do not let it go any further.
>> Speaker 5: It would've triggered
like the select event for attempting to?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm, yep, and
so basically DOM events will bubble.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
that's what I wanted to prevent.
So using event.stop propagation,
you simply say stop it here and,
allow it to go no further.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Because there are,
sometimes in a DOM,
where you click on something, but there
might be text or something when you really
actually want to click the underlying
element or the group of elements.
And so, it's really the question is
where is that DOM event targeting.
And so sometimes letting a bubble is good,
that's exactly what you want.
Other times you wanna just
isolate it to just that event.
So Chris P had a question I'm
just gonna address real quick.
And that is, does ngOnInit
execute after input is passed in?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
the answer is yes, afterwards.
So if you go to day one slides and
you look at the life cycle of hooks,
slide in particular that ngOnInit is
called after the first ngOnChanges.
Well, this gets called,
ngOnChanges gets called when an input or
output binding value changes.
So essentially you have to
have an input or an output.
In this case, an input,
once it changes at least once,
it's been initialized,
then ngOnInit gets called.
So in a nutshell, what I've always
just said is ngOnInit happens
after the bindings have been initialized.
And so, now you can see from
the documentation is that it's called
after the first ngOnChanges,
at which point you can safely assume that,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Essentially, your
bindings are there, your input has been
satisfied and the binding is ready to go.